Let's talk a little bit about state versus props.
Now one thing you may have noticed is that we have this parent component called APP THAT'S PRETTY MUCH
surrounds everything in our app so far and only here we have state.
Now this state we passed down to the card list component as well an attribute right.
Just like we have HMO attributes we sent down monsters and give it our state.
So what you notice here is that as soon as we pass our state down to a component this component receives
it as a prop.
And this is what you will usually see happening through our apps.
We have state which often is something that changes because of user interaction.
Well what changes because of user interaction the monster changes because when we click refresh on a
page we update the state monsters from an empty array to a filled in users.
Now this state trickles down our componentry as props to whoever needs it so if you remember this diagram
this idea of one way data flow or unit directional data flow in our case we have this app component
that's at the very top.
It's the parent component and then this component has state that whenever something changes in the state
it will trickle down.
If we pass that information down to whatever component that cares about it remember we pass it down
as an attribute.
So that state gets turned into props into all these little components that we pass it down in our case
the cordless component gets passed down the while the monsters and they use it as props so remember
that state usually lives in just one location or a specific state only on one location and it trickles
down as props if we go back to our monster's example if we open up developer tools here and remember
we use the react developer tools if you don't have it by now I highly recommend that you download the
extension from the Chrome Web Store you see that we have the app on the right hand side it shows me
that the state is monsters which is array of 10 and search field.
Now this search field that we haven't worked on it yet so don't worry about it yet.
The key here is that we have these monsters and this state if we go down gets passed down to card list
and right here you see that the props is monsters
so even though it's the same thing state turns into props when it gets passed down.
Now if we go down even further to the card items we see over here that these card items get past the
monster prop because we only passed on one monster at a time.
Now you might also notice here the key that we gave each card remember key is used by react to distinguish
when multiple components are rendered one after another.
See here how we have all these card components ten of them to be exact.
If one of them changes React uses this key attribute to say hey key three changed do a quick render.
So this is that internal react working for us to make sure that when they update the Dom it's going
to be efficient and only update one of the cards if it updates instead of all the ones but the reactive
obvious tool is really really useful to see how information is being passed down.
Now again remember the keys to being a great reactive helper the second point was to decide the state
and where it lives now.
Up until now we've only had state in our app component but as we move further along in the course you'll
notice that we can put state wherever we want.
So before we even get to that let's think about this I have here just a simple little tree like structure
and you can ignore the numbers for now but you can think of this as our app where we have the app J.S.
that has different components down here now.
Right now in this orange part this is where the state lives.
So let me ask you this if the state changes right here let's say our monsters grows from having 10 users
to 20 users.
What happens.
Well a state change it's going to happen with said state and then we're going to announce to whoever
cares that hey the monsters array has changed.
And whichever component has those monsters passed down to is going to say oh I received new props that
means I have to re render.
So again it's going to say hey I have a new prop information who needs it and whoever needs it gets
passed down that prop information.
So on and so forth.
So if you think of this as a function call to render remember each component at the end of the day is
a function that renders.
So if state changes it's going to notify this component and say hey run the render function again.
Hey run the render functioning again.
Hey run the render function again.
Hey run the render function again so when we talk about deciding where state lives and how we passed
on props we can see here that there are some performance implications because every time state changes
we're going to have to rerun functions because the properties or the inputs or the function change.
Now this idea of performance is something we'll talk about later on in the course when we learn a little
bit more.
But I want you to start thinking in terms of this tree that we're creating and how every time we introduce
state or data into our app that data gets passed down as props.
Finally remember that this robo hash that we're using right now is an API.
Same with the users data.
So what we've done up to this point is essentially have an API call to get the users.
When we initially load the page with our javascript CSX and HCM Alpha create react app just simulates
when we run it a fake server that sends these files.
We get the users and it then gets each image of our monsters from another API the rubble hash.
So this is what we've built so far but we have a lot more to go through.
So let's get started in the next video.